Okay,
guys,
Welcome back.
Now,
what we're gonna look at this time is another oldie,
But goody,
which is the while wind loop.
So we're just gonna call this sub?
I'm gonna start them or with loop on its while wend It's answer a few times.
Give us some lines to play with.
Copy that code because we want to tell it.
We always want to start with a one and now a while.
Wend loop for Lena begins with while and ends with wend But what we need to do with the
while is give it a condition that you'll remember.
We used the condition up here in the do loop,
we said,
while the actor celled up value is less than 38 So let's use that same condition or one
very similar.
So while the active sell dot value is less than five,
let's say his center a few times and close your loops of wiles end with wend typed in lower
case you can see that's been capitalized.
And again,
for now,
we're just gonna do is copy this offset code so we can move down to some on pace it there
on Let's step through that so range a one select fantastic active,
sold up value equals one,
which is indeed less than five.
So execute the code when'd come back up.
Set up the active cell equals two,
which is still less than five.
So execute the code again.
Three.
Less than five execute again.
Four.
Less than five Execute again.
Five.
Not Weston.
Hit F eight and notice what happens straight down to the end sub And and so they go.
They are the four major loops.
The Do loop before next loop the for next loop with a step on the while wend loop.
Now,
at the moment,
all we've been doing is just offsetting through them.
But for argument's sake,
let's Ah,
yeah,
In fact,
let's let's do it with the do loop Now I can't remember what the code for color in
something in it.
So what I'm gonna do,
it's just I'm going to record a macro.
I don't care what number this,
because I'm let's just watch it recording over here.
Was it There was this one,
I think,
is going to say a one right click format cells.
Phil and I want to that lovely green color.
Okay,
so they just going to stop recording and I'm going to steal all of that code copy.
Come to model.
Looping on.
I'm just gonna hit enter a few times on paste All of that code in there.
So we have rain J one select.
We don't need that because we've already got range a one select in their delete that on.
I think what we're looking at is working with the active cell,
and I think we can avoid the selection.
Next,
we're going to say Active cell.
So let's just let's write this code as we go.
So let's say active sell adult.
Let me delete that dot because when I want to work with is the interior so dot in theory,
See,
as I start typing it,
it automatically suggests space.
I think they're solid colors anyway,
so it's not interior dots,
pattern or current color.
They go.
That's where it is its interior dot color smell.
The American way equals on 5 to 8 7936 which is obviously green.
Some skin deletes all of that code,
so have taken.
It doesn't lines of code or half a dozen lines of code and cut it down to one line of code
,
which is going to be more efficient.
So let me just uncultured that for a second.
Format cells no call that.
Okay,
let's step through this from watch what happens.
So they go into Erica Lack Green are now we actually want to offset to if we want to color
every other cell.
So f eight we have moved in two rows offset to commerce era coloring moved down,
calorie moved down color in until it is less than 38.
I'm just gonna hit play on.
There you go.
That's colored every other cell in that color.
So that's one thing you can do to use a loop now.
Another thing we could do is we could copy the value of the cell that we're on to the
column to the right of it.
So let's use for next loop for that.
And this one was very straightforward.
What we're gonna say is the active,
active cell dot off set open brackets,
same row,
zero comma,
one that is the column to the right.
Got value equals the active,
so don't value.
So I am gonna be writing whatever is in an active cell into the cell immediately over to
the right,
so that would be column base.
So it's stepped through that much that inaction.
So here we go.
We are on a one,
our country's 1 to 10 on notice.
What happens?
Over here we get the one in B because the active cell offset zero comma.
11 column to the left is gonna be the value of whatever is in the active cell on step
through on again.
In fact,
let's no change that 23 and see what happens.
And there will be moving down three on each pass That one worked,
moved down three.
Right that compliment right that value in there and step through and set through until my
cancer reaches 10.
Bum bum bum bum bum bum like ants currently on nine.
My cannons,
currently on 10 and ends up so you can have mountains of code in between your four next
loops.
Andi,
You could,
in fact,
let's just do one more.
Ah,
let's Let's use the wild wind so well.
Then to sell doesn't equal.
While the active cell is less than five,
let's color it in less color.
It in red.
In fact,
now some of the colors actually have names.
Copy some.
Nicholas actually have names in visual basic.
So if you are ever unsure,
just type something like VB on the name of a cola on When you click off.
If it capitalizes,
it's a thing.
So VB red is indeed a known phrase within visual basic.
So let's just step through a sewer.
Lantos a one select vb red They go moved on.
Cell will be ready.
Be read BB red while it is less than five.
So they should be the last iteration.
When'd actor sell value?
No equal slice which is not less than five and sub on and on.
There you go.
That's everything you need to know about looping.
We're going to use them extensively as we go through the program and projects on now you
know all about them.
OK,
I'll see you in the next lecture